Add tutorial (#421)
pester/docs: tutorial/1-introduction/1-welcome.mdx

---
id: welcome
title: Welcome
description: A follow-along tutorial that takes a sample PowerShell module from no tests at all to a fully tested module with mocks, isolated file operations and code coverage
---

Most Pester documentation is written as reference material — you arrive knowing what you want, and you look it up. This tutorial is the other thing. It is a single story, told in order, where you build one real PowerShell module and test it from nothing to done.

> You will type every command yourself. Nothing is hidden behind a "download the finished sample" link.

Author: ```suggestion
There is no sample project to download. This time you will type every command from scratch, or copy the text if that's what you prefer.
```

You will not build it all at once. It starts as an empty folder and grows a piece at a time, with tests arriving alongside each piece.

## How the tutorial is organised

The tutorial is split into modules, and each module into pages. You are on the first page of the first module now.

| Module | What it covers |
| --- | --- |
| **Introduction** | What you need installed before you start |
| **Testing a module** | Building Planetarium and testing it end to end |
| **Organising tests** | Grouping tests, shared setup, and choosing what runs |
| **Mocking** | Replacing the data source your code depends on |
| **Working with files** | Isolating file operations with `TestDrive` |
| **Code coverage** | Finding the code your tests never touch |
| **Setting up CI** | Running the whole thing on every push |

They are meant to be done in order — each one builds on the module the previous one left behind.

## Tracking your progress

Every page in this tutorial opens with a progress panel and ends with a checklist.

> Tick every box in a page's checklist and that page is marked complete. The panel at the top of the page updates immediately and shows you where you are in the module and in the tutorial overall.

Author: ```suggestion
Tick every box in a page's checklist and that page is marked complete. The progress tracker at the top of the page updates immediately and shows you where you are in the module and in the tutorial overall.
```

:::note Your progress stays in this browser

> Progress is saved to your browser's local storage. Nothing is sent anywhere and there is no account to create — but that also means your progress will not follow you to another browser or another machine, and clearing site data will reset it.

Author: ```suggestion
Progress is saved to your browser's local storage. That way you can come back and continue later at your own pace. Nothing is sent to the server, so clearing your browser data will reset it.
```
